The Project Gutenberg eBook, Pictures from Italy, by Charles Dickens,
Illustrated by Marcus Stone


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

Title: Pictures from Italy

Author: Charles Dickens

Release Date: February 17, 2013  [eBook #650]
[This file was first posted on September 17, 1996]

Language: English
Character set encoding: UTF-8
***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PICTURES FROM ITALY***
....
ROME
WE entered the Eternal City, at about four o’clock in the afternoon, on
the thirtieth of January, by the Porta del Popolo, and came
immediately—it was a dark, muddy day, and there had been heavy rain—on
the skirts of the Carnival.  We did not, then, know that we were only
looking at the fag end of the masks, who were driving slowly round and
round the Piazza until they could find a promising opportunity for
falling into the stream of carriages, and getting, in good time, into the
thick of the festivity; and coming among them so abruptly, all
travel-stained and weary, was not coming very well prepared to enjoy the
scene.

We had crossed the Tiber by the Ponte Molle two or three miles before.
It had looked as yellow as it ought to look, and hurrying on between its
worn-away and miry banks, had a promising aspect of desolation and ruin.
The masquerade dresses on the fringe of the Carnival, did great violence
to this promise.  There were no great ruins, no solemn tokens of
antiquity, to be seen;—they all lie on the other side of the city.  There
seemed to be long streets of commonplace shops and houses, such as are to
be found in any European town; there were busy people, equipages,
ordinary walkers to and fro; a multitude of chattering strangers.  It was
no more _my_ Rome: the Rome of anybody’s fancy, man or boy; degraded and
fallen and lying asleep in the sun among a heap of ruins: than the Place
de la Concorde in Paris is.  A cloudy sky, a dull cold rain, and muddy
streets, I was prepared for, but not for this: and I confess to having
gone to bed, that night, in a very indifferent humour, and with a very
considerably quenched enthusiasm.

Immediately on going out next day, we hurried off to St. Peter’s.  It
looked immense in the distance, but distinctly and decidedly small, by
comparison, on a near approach.  The beauty of the Piazza, on which it
stands, with its clusters of exquisite columns, and its gushing
fountains—so fresh, so broad, and free, and beautiful—nothing can
exaggerate.  The first burst of the interior, in all its expansive
majesty and glory: and, most of all, the looking up into the Dome: is a
sensation never to be forgotten.  But, there were preparations for a
Festa; the pillars of stately marble were swathed in some impertinent
frippery of red and yellow; the altar, and entrance to the subterranean
chapel: which is before it: in the centre of the church: were like a
goldsmith’s shop, or one of the opening scenes in a very lavish
pantomime.  And though I had as high a sense of the beauty of the
building (I hope) as it is possible to entertain, I felt no very strong
emotion.  I have been infinitely more affected in many English cathedrals
when the organ has been playing, and in many English country churches
when the congregation have been singing.  I had a much greater sense of
mystery and wonder, in the Cathedral of San Mark at Venice.

When we came out of the church again (we stood nearly an hour staring up
into the dome: and would not have ‘gone over’ the Cathedral then, for any
money), we said to the coachman, ‘Go to the Coliseum.’  In a quarter of
an hour or so, he stopped at the gate, and we went in.

It is no fiction, but plain, sober, honest Truth, to say: so suggestive
and distinct is it at this hour: that, for a moment—actually in passing
in—they who will, may have the whole great pile before them, as it used
to be, with thousands of eager faces staring down into the arena, and
such a whirl of strife, and blood, and dust going on there, as no
language can describe.  Its solitude, its awful beauty, and its utter
desolation, strike upon the stranger the next moment, like a softened
sorrow; and never in his life, perhaps, will he be so moved and overcome
by any sight, not immediately connected with his own affections and
afflictions.

To see it crumbling there, an inch a year; its walls and arches overgrown
with green; its corridors open to the day; the long grass growing in its
porches; young trees of yesterday, springing up on its ragged parapets,
and bearing fruit: chance produce of the seeds dropped there by the birds
who build their nests within its chinks and crannies; to see its Pit of
Fight filled up with earth, and the peaceful Cross planted in the centre;
to climb into its upper halls, and look down on ruin, ruin, ruin, all
about it; the triumphal arches of Constantine, Septimus Severus, and
Titus; the Roman Forum; the Palace of the Cæsars; the temples of the old
religion, fallen down and gone; is to see the ghost of old Rome, wicked,
wonderful old city, haunting the very ground on which its people trod.
It is the most impressive, the most stately, the most solemn, grand,
majestic, mournful sight, conceivable.  Never, in its bloodiest prime,
can the sight of the gigantic Coliseum, full and running over with the
lustiest life, have moved one’s heart, as it must move all who look upon
it now, a ruin.  GOD be thanked: a ruin!

As it tops the other ruins: standing there, a mountain among graves: so
do its ancient influences outlive all other remnants of the old mythology
and old butchery of Rome, in the nature of the fierce and cruel Roman
people.  The Italian face changes as the visitor approaches the city; its
beauty becomes devilish; and there is scarcely one countenance in a
hundred, among the common people in the streets, that would not be at
home and happy in a renovated Coliseum to-morrow.

Here was Rome indeed at last; and such a Rome as no one can imagine in
its full and awful grandeur!  We wandered out upon the Appian Way, and
then went on, through miles of ruined tombs and broken walls, with here
and there a desolate and uninhabited house: past the Circus of Romulus,
where the course of the chariots, the stations of the judges,
competitors, and spectators, are yet as plainly to be seen as in old
time: past the tomb of Cecilia Metella: past all inclosure, hedge, or
stake, wall or fence: away upon the open Campagna, where on that side of
Rome, nothing is to be beheld but Ruin.  Except where the distant
Apennines bound the view upon the left, the whole wide prospect is one
field of ruin.  Broken aqueducts, left in the most picturesque and
beautiful clusters of arches; broken temples; broken tombs.  A desert of
decay, sombre and desolate beyond all expression; and with a history in
every stone that strews the ground.

                                * * * * *

On Sunday, the Pope assisted in the performance of High Mass at St.
Peter’s.  The effect of the Cathedral on my mind, on that second visit,
was exactly what it was at first, and what it remains after many visits.
It is not religiously impressive or affecting.  It is an immense edifice,
with no one point for the mind to rest upon; and it tires itself with
wandering round and round.  The very purpose of the place, is not
expressed in anything you see there, unless you examine its details—and
all examination of details is incompatible with the place itself.  It
might be a Pantheon, or a Senate House, or a great architectural trophy,
having no other object than an architectural triumph.  There is a black
statue of St. Peter, to be sure, under a red canopy; which is larger than
life and which is constantly having its great toe kissed by good
Catholics.  You cannot help seeing that: it is so very prominent and
popular.  But it does not heighten the effect of the temple, as a work of
art; and it is not expressive—to me at least—of its high purpose.

A large space behind the altar, was fitted up with boxes, shaped like
those at the Italian Opera in England, but in their decoration much more
gaudy.  In the centre of the kind of theatre thus railed off, was a
canopied dais with the Pope’s chair upon it.  The pavement was covered
with a carpet of the brightest green; and what with this green, and the
intolerable reds and crimsons, and gold borders of the hangings, the
whole concern looked like a stupendous Bonbon.  On either side of the
altar, was a large box for lady strangers.  These were filled with ladies
in black dresses and black veils.  The gentlemen of the Pope’s guard, in
red coats, leather breeches, and jack-boots, guarded all this reserved
space, with drawn swords that were very flashy in every sense; and from
the altar all down the nave, a broad lane was kept clear by the Pope’s
Swiss guard, who wear a quaint striped surcoat, and striped tight legs,
and carry halberds like those which are usually shouldered by those
theatrical supernumeraries, who never _can_ get off the stage fast
enough, and who may be generally observed to linger in the enemy’s camp
after the open country, held by the opposite forces, has been split up
the middle by a convulsion of Nature.

I got upon the border of the green carpet, in company with a great many
other gentlemen, attired in black (no other passport is necessary), and
stood there at my ease, during the performance of Mass.  The singers were
in a crib of wirework (like a large meat-safe or bird-cage) in one
corner; and sang most atrociously.  All about the green carpet, there was
a slowly moving crowd of people: talking to each other: staring at the
Pope through eye-glasses; defrauding one another, in moments of partial
curiosity, out of precarious seats on the bases of pillars: and grinning
hideously at the ladies.  Dotted here and there, were little knots of
friars (Frances-cáni, or Cappuccíni, in their coarse brown dresses and
peaked hoods) making a strange contrast to the gaudy ecclesiastics of
higher degree, and having their humility gratified to the utmost, by
being shouldered about, and elbowed right and left, on all sides.  Some
of these had muddy sandals and umbrellas, and stained garments: having
trudged in from the country.  The faces of the greater part were as
coarse and heavy as their dress; their dogged, stupid, monotonous stare
at all the glory and splendour, having something in it, half miserable,
and half ridiculous.

Upon the green carpet itself, and gathered round the altar, was a perfect
army of cardinals and priests, in red, gold, purple, violet, white, and
fine linen.  Stragglers from these, went to and fro among the crowd,
conversing two and two, or giving and receiving introductions, and
exchanging salutations; other functionaries in black gowns, and other
functionaries in court-dresses, were similarly engaged.  In the midst of
all these, and stealthy Jesuits creeping in and out, and the extreme
restlessness of the Youth of England, who were perpetually wandering
about, some few steady persons in black cassocks, who had knelt down with
their faces to the wall, and were poring over their missals, became,
unintentionally, a sort of humane man-traps, and with their own devout
legs, tripped up other people’s by the dozen.

There was a great pile of candles lying down on the floor near me, which
a very old man in a rusty black gown with an open-work tippet, like a
summer ornament for a fireplace in tissue-paper, made himself very busy
in dispensing to all the ecclesiastics: one a-piece.  They loitered about
with these for some time, under their arms like walking-sticks, or in
their hands like truncheons.  At a certain period of the ceremony,
however, each carried his candle up to the Pope, laid it across his two
knees to be blessed, took it back again, and filed off.  This was done in
a very attenuated procession, as you may suppose, and occupied a long
time.  Not because it takes long to bless a candle through and through,
but because there were so many candles to be blessed.  At last they were
all blessed: and then they were all lighted; and then the Pope was taken
up, chair and all, and carried round the church.

I must say, that I never saw anything, out of November, so like the
popular English commemoration of the fifth of that month.  A bundle of
matches and a lantern, would have made it perfect.  Nor did the Pope,
himself, at all mar the resemblance, though he has a pleasant and
venerable face; for, as this part of the ceremony makes him giddy and
sick, he shuts his eyes when it is performed: and having his eyes shut
and a great mitre on his head, and his head itself wagging to and fro as
they shook him in carrying, he looked as if his mask were going to tumble
off.  The two immense fans which are always borne, one on either side of
him, accompanied him, of course, on this occasion.  As they carried him
along, he blessed the people with the mystic sign; and as he passed them,
they kneeled down.  When he had made the round of the church, he was
brought back again, and if I am not mistaken, this performance was
repeated, in the whole, three times.  There was, certainly nothing solemn
or effective in it; and certainly very much that was droll and tawdry.
But this remark applies to the whole ceremony, except the raising of the
Host, when every man in the guard dropped on one knee instantly, and
dashed his naked sword on the ground; which had a fine effect.

The next time I saw the cathedral, was some two or three weeks
afterwards, when I climbed up into the ball; and then, the hangings being
taken down, and the carpet taken up, but all the framework left, the
remnants of these decorations looked like an exploded cracker.

                                * * * * *

The Friday and Saturday having been solemn Festa days, and Sunday being
always a _dies non_ in carnival proceedings, we had looked forward, with
some impatience and curiosity, to the beginning of the new week: Monday
and Tuesday being the two last and best days of the Carnival.

On the Monday afternoon at one or two o’clock, there began to be a great
rattling of carriages into the court-yard of the hotel; a hurrying to and
fro of all the servants in it; and, now and then, a swift shooting across
some doorway or balcony, of a straggling stranger in a fancy dress: not
yet sufficiently well used to the same, to wear it with confidence, and
defy public opinion.  All the carriages were open, and had the linings
carefully covered with white cotton or calico, to prevent their proper
decorations from being spoiled by the incessant pelting of sugar-plums;
and people were packing and cramming into every vehicle as it waited for
its occupants, enormous sacks and baskets full of these confétti,
together with such heaps of flowers, tied up in little nosegays, that
some carriages were not only brimful of flowers, but literally running
over: scattering, at every shake and jerk of the springs, some of their
abundance on the ground.  Not to be behindhand in these essential
particulars, we caused two very respectable sacks of sugar-plums (each
about three feet high) and a large clothes-basket full of flowers to be
conveyed into our hired barouche, with all speed.  And from our place of
observation, in one of the upper balconies of the hotel, we contemplated
these arrangements with the liveliest satisfaction.  The carriages now
beginning to take up their company, and move away, we got into ours, and
drove off too, armed with little wire masks for our faces; the
sugar-plums, like Falstaff’s adulterated sack, having lime in their
composition.

The Corso is a street a mile long; a street of shops, and palaces, and
private houses, sometimes opening into a broad piazza.  There are
verandahs and balconies, of all shapes and sizes, to almost every
house—not on one story alone, but often to one room or another on every
story—put there in general with so little order or regularity, that if,
year after year, and season after season, it had rained balconies, hailed
balconies, snowed balconies, blown balconies, they could scarcely have
come into existence in a more disorderly manner.

This is the great fountain-head and focus of the Carnival.  But all the
streets in which the Carnival is held, being vigilantly kept by dragoons,
it is necessary for carriages, in the first instance, to pass, in line,
down another thoroughfare, and so come into the Corso at the end remote
from the Piázza del Popolo; which is one of its terminations.
Accordingly, we fell into the string of coaches, and, for some time,
jogged on quietly enough; now crawling on at a very slow walk; now
trotting half-a-dozen yards; now backing fifty; and now stopping
altogether: as the pressure in front obliged us.  If any impetuous
carriage dashed out of the rank and clattered forward, with the wild idea
of getting on faster, it was suddenly met, or overtaken, by a trooper on
horseback, who, deaf as his own drawn sword to all remonstrances,
immediately escorted it back to the very end of the row, and made it a
dim speck in the remotest perspective.  Occasionally, we interchanged a
volley of confétti with the carriage next in front, or the carriage next
behind; but as yet, this capturing of stray and errant coaches by the
military, was the chief amusement.

Presently, we came into a narrow street, where, besides one line of
carriages going, there was another line of carriages returning.  Here the
sugar-plums and the nosegays began to fly about, pretty smartly; and I
was fortunate enough to observe one gentleman attired as a Greek warrior,
catch a light-whiskered brigand on the nose (he was in the very act of
tossing up a bouquet to a young lady in a first-floor window) with a
precision that was much applauded by the bystanders.  As this victorious
Greek was exchanging a facetious remark with a stout gentleman in a
doorway—one-half black and one-half white, as if he had been peeled up
the middle—who had offered him his congratulations on this achievement,
he received an orange from a housetop, full on his left ear, and was much
surprised, not to say discomfited.  Especially, as he was standing up at
the time; and in consequence of the carriage moving on suddenly, at the
same moment, staggered ignominiously, and buried himself among his
flowers.

Some quarter of an hour of this sort of progress, brought us to the
Corso; and anything so gay, so bright, and lively as the whole scene
there, it would be difficult to imagine.  From all the innumerable
balconies: from the remotest and highest, no less than from the lowest
and nearest: hangings of bright red, bright green, bright blue, white and
gold, were fluttering in the brilliant sunlight.  From windows, and from
parapets, and tops of houses, streamers of the richest colours, and
draperies of the gaudiest and most sparkling hues, were floating out upon
the street.  The buildings seemed to have been literally turned inside
out, and to have all their gaiety towards the highway.  Shop-fronts were
taken down, and the windows filled with company, like boxes at a shining
theatre; doors were carried off their hinges, and long tapestried groves,
hung with garlands of flowers and evergreens, displayed within; builders’
scaffoldings were gorgeous temples, radiant in silver, gold, and crimson;
and in every nook and corner, from the pavement to the chimney-tops,
where women’s eyes could glisten, there they danced, and laughed, and
sparkled, like the light in water.  Every sort of bewitching madness of
dress was there.  Little preposterous scarlet jackets; quaint old
stomachers, more wicked than the smartest bodices; Polish pelisses,
strained and tight as ripe gooseberries; tiny Greek caps, all awry, and
clinging to the dark hair, Heaven knows how; every wild, quaint, bold,
shy, pettish, madcap fancy had its illustration in a dress; and every
fancy was as dead forgotten by its owner, in the tumult of merriment, as
if the three old aqueducts that still remain entire had brought Lethe
into Rome, upon their sturdy arches, that morning.

The carriages were now three abreast; in broader places four; often
stationary for a long time together, always one close mass of variegated
brightness; showing, the whole street-full, through the storm of flowers,
like flowers of a larger growth themselves.  In some, the horses were
richly caparisoned in magnificent trappings; in others they were decked
from head to tail, with flowing ribbons.  Some were driven by coachmen
with enormous double faces: one face leering at the horses: the other
cocking its extraordinary eyes into the carriage: and both rattling
again, under the hail of sugar-plums.  Other drivers were attired as
women, wearing long ringlets and no bonnets, and looking more ridiculous
in any real difficulty with the horses (of which, in such a concourse,
there were a great many) than tongue can tell, or pen describe.  Instead
of sitting _in_ the carriages, upon the seats, the handsome Roman women,
to see and to be seen the better, sit in the heads of the barouches, at
this time of general licence, with their feet upon the cushions—and oh,
the flowing skirts and dainty waists, the blessed shapes and laughing
faces, the free, good-humoured, gallant figures that they make! There
were great vans, too, full of handsome girls—thirty, or more together,
perhaps—and the broadsides that were poured into, and poured out of,
these fairy fire-shops, splashed the air with flowers and bon-bons for
ten minutes at a time.  Carriages, delayed long in one place, would begin
a deliberate engagement with other carriages, or with people at the lower
windows; and the spectators at some upper balcony or window, joining in
the fray, and attacking both parties, would empty down great bags of
confétti, that descended like a cloud, and in an instant made them white
as millers.  Still, carriages on carriages, dresses on dresses, colours
on colours, crowds upon crowds, without end.  Men and boys clinging to
the wheels of coaches, and holding on behind, and following in their
wake, and diving in among the horses’ feet to pick up scattered flowers
to sell again; maskers on foot (the drollest generally) in fantastic
exaggerations of court-dresses, surveying the throng through enormous
eye-glasses, and always transported with an ecstasy of love, on the
discovery of any particularly old lady at a window; long strings of
Policinelli, laying about them with blown bladders at the ends of sticks;
a waggon-full of madmen, screaming and tearing to the life; a coach-full
of grave mamelukes, with their horse-tail standard set up in the midst; a
party of gipsy-women engaged in terrific conflict with a shipful of
sailors; a man-monkey on a pole, surrounded by strange animals with pigs’
faces, and lions’ tails, carried under their arms, or worn gracefully
over their shoulders; carriages on carriages, dresses on dresses, colours
on colours, crowds upon crowds, without end.  Not many actual characters
sustained, or represented, perhaps, considering the number dressed, but
the main pleasure of the scene consisting in its perfect good temper; in
its bright, and infinite, and flashing variety; and in its entire
abandonment to the mad humour of the time—an abandonment so perfect, so
contagious, so irresistible, that the steadiest foreigner fights up to
his middle in flowers and sugar-plums, like the wildest Roman of them
all, and thinks of nothing else till half-past four o’clock, when he is
suddenly reminded (to his great regret) that this is not the whole
business of his existence, by hearing the trumpets sound, and seeing the
dragoons begin to clear the street.

How it ever _is_ cleared for the race that takes place at five, or how
the horses ever go through the race, without going over the people, is
more than I can say.  But the carriages get out into the by-streets, or
up into the Piázza del Popolo, and some people sit in temporary galleries
in the latter place, and tens of thousands line the Corso on both sides,
when the horses are brought out into the Piázza—to the foot of that same
column which, for centuries, looked down upon the games and chariot-races
in the Circus Maximus.

At a given signal they are started off.  Down the live lane, the whole
length of the Corso, they fly like the wind: riderless, as all the world
knows: with shining ornaments upon their backs, and twisted in their
plaited manes: and with heavy little balls stuck full of spikes, dangling
at their sides, to goad them on.  The jingling of these trappings, and
the rattling of their hoofs upon the hard stones; the dash and fury of
their speed along the echoing street; nay, the very cannon that are
fired—these noises are nothing to the roaring of the multitude: their
shouts: the clapping of their hands.  But it is soon over—almost
instantaneously.  More cannon shake the town.  The horses have plunged
into the carpets put across the street to stop them; the goal is reached;
the prizes are won (they are given, in part, by the poor Jews, as a
compromise for not running foot-races themselves); and there is an end to
that day’s sport.

But if the scene be bright, and gay, and crowded, on the last day but
one, it attains, on the concluding day, to such a height of glittering
colour, swarming life, and frolicsome uproar, that the bare recollection
of it makes me giddy at this moment.  The same diversions, greatly
heightened and intensified in the ardour with which they are pursued, go
on until the same hour.  The race is repeated; the cannon are fired; the
shouting and clapping of hands are renewed; the cannon are fired again;
the race is over; and the prizes are won.  But the carriages: ankle-deep
with sugar-plums within, and so be-flowered and dusty without, as to be
hardly recognisable for the same vehicles that they were, three hours
ago: instead of scampering off in all directions, throng into the Corso,
where they are soon wedged together in a scarcely moving mass.  For the
diversion of the Moccoletti, the last gay madness of the Carnival, is now
at hand; and sellers of little tapers like what are called Christmas
candles in England, are shouting lustily on every side, ‘Moccoli,
Moccoli!  Ecco Moccoli!’—a new item in the tumult; quite abolishing that
other item of ‘Ecco Fióri!  Ecco Fior-r-r!’ which has been making itself
audible over all the rest, at intervals, the whole day through.

As the bright hangings and dresses are all fading into one dull, heavy,
uniform colour in the decline of the day, lights begin flashing, here and
there: in the windows, on the housetops, in the balconies, in the
carriages, in the hands of the foot-passengers: little by little:
gradually, gradually: more and more: until the whole long street is one
great glare and blaze of fire.  Then, everybody present has but one
engrossing object; that is, to extinguish other people’s candles, and to
keep his own alight; and everybody: man, woman, or child, gentleman or
lady, prince or peasant, native or foreigner: yells and screams, and
roars incessantly, as a taunt to the subdued, ‘Senza Moccolo, Senza
Moccolo!’  (Without a light!  Without a light!) until nothing is heard
but a gigantic chorus of those two words, mingled with peals of laughter.

The spectacle, at this time, is one of the most extraordinary that can be
imagined.  Carriages coming slowly by, with everybody standing on the
seats or on the box, holding up their lights at arms’ length, for greater
safety; some in paper shades; some with a bunch of undefended little
tapers, kindled altogether; some with blazing torches; some with feeble
little candles; men on foot, creeping along, among the wheels, watching
their opportunity, to make a spring at some particular light, and dash it
out; other people climbing up into carriages, to get hold of them by main
force; others, chasing some unlucky wanderer, round and round his own
coach, to blow out the light he has begged or stolen somewhere, before he
can ascend to his own company, and enable them to light their
extinguished tapers; others, with their hats off, at a carriage-door,
humbly beseeching some kind-hearted lady to oblige them with a light for
a cigar, and when she is in the fulness of doubt whether to comply or no,
blowing out the candle she is guarding so tenderly with her little hand;
other people at the windows, fishing for candles with lines and hooks, or
letting down long willow-wands with handkerchiefs at the end, and
flapping them out, dexterously, when the bearer is at the height of his
triumph, others, biding their time in corners, with immense extinguishers
like halberds, and suddenly coming down upon glorious torches; others,
gathered round one coach, and sticking to it; others, raining oranges and
nosegays at an obdurate little lantern, or regularly storming a pyramid
of men, holding up one man among them, who carries one feeble little wick
above his head, with which he defies them all!  Senza Moccolo!  Senza
Moccolo!  Beautiful women, standing up in coaches, pointing in derision
at extinguished lights, and clapping their hands, as they pass on,
crying, ‘Senza Moccolo!  Senza Moccolo!’; low balconies full of lovely
faces and gay dresses, struggling with assailants in the streets; some
repressing them as they climb up, some bending down, some leaning over,
some shrinking back—delicate arms and bosoms—graceful figures—glowing
lights, fluttering dresses, Senza Moccolo, Senza Moccoli, Senza
Moc-co-lo-o-o-o!—when in the wildest enthusiasm of the cry, and fullest
ecstasy of the sport, the Ave Maria rings from the church steeples, and
the Carnival is over in an instant—put out like a taper, with a breath!
...